## Simple definition/main idea
_Collection of a type of objects is called class_. It is a logical entity. A class can also be defined as _a blueprint from which you can create an individual object_. Class doesn't consume any space.

## Sintaxis/How to implement it
```java
class <class_name> {
	field;
	method;
}
```

or 

```java
//extends or implements clause is optional
<class modifiers> class <class name> <extends clause> <implements clause> {
    // Dealing with Classes (Class body)
    <field declarations (Static and Non-Static)>
    <method declarations (Static and Non-Static)>
    <Inner class declarations>
    <nested interface declarations>
    <constructor declarations>
    <Static initializer blocks>
}
```

## Technical definition
A class can contain:
- **Fields**
- **Methods**
- [[12. Constructor|Constructor]]
- **Blocks**
- **Nested class and interface**

Explicit [[_Keywords|keywords]] to set the boundaries in a class(aka. class modifiers):
- public: the following element is available to everyone
- private: means that no one can access that element except you, the creator of the type, inside methods of that type.
- protected: The protected keyword acts like private, with the exception that an inheriting class has access to protected members, but not private members.
- default: This is usually called package access because classes can access the members of other classes in the same package (library component), but outside of the package those same members appear to be private

## Component/Complements
### Instancias of a Class
Instance variables are in constrast to _class variables_ which you declare using the `static` modifier. The runtime system allocates class variables once per class regardless of the number of instances created of that class. The system allocates memory for class variables the first time it encounters the class. All instances share the same copy of the class's class variables. You can access class variables through an instance or through the class itself.

Every time you instantiate a new object from a class, you get a new copy of each of the class's instance variables. These copies are associated with the new object.

#### Intance variables
Instance variable(aka. instance field) is a variable that is declared within a class but outside of any method, constructor, or static block. doesn't get memory at compile time. **It gets memory at runtime when an object or instance is created.**

#### Class variables
Class variables(aka. static variables) **are declared with the `static` keyword in a class**. Static variables are created when the program starts and destroyed when the program stops. *There would only be one copy of each class variable per class, regardless of how many objects are created from it.*

#### Constant variables
Constants can be declared using Java's static and final keywords. The `static` keyword is used for memory management and `final` keyword signifies the property that the value of the variable cannot be changed.

#### Instance methods
A instance method(aka. instance member function) is a method that is defined within a class and operates on specific instances or objects of that class. Instance methods are crucial for [[10. Encapsulation|encapsulating]] behavior within objects and enabling the objects to perform operations based on their state.

#### Class methods
Class methods can only operate on class variables and cannot access the instance variables defined in the class.

## Resources
- [scaler](https://www.scaler.com/topics/constant-in-java/)
- [tutorialspoint](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/What-is-the-difference-between-class-variables-and-instance-variables-in-Java)
- [mygreatlearning](https://www.mygreatlearning.com/blog/instance-variable-in-java/#:~:text=The%20main%20difference%20between%20class,later%20using%20a%20setter%20method.)
- [techguruspeaks](https://www.techguruspeaks.com/classes-objects-fields-and-methods/)
