## Simple definition/main idea
Inheritance represents the **IS-A relationship** which is also known as a **parent-child** relationship.

With the use of the `extends` keyword, *the subclasses will be able to inherit all the properties of the superclass except for the private properties of the superclass.*

This means that an object of a subclass can be used wherever an object of the superclass can be used. 

**Inheritance in Java mechanism is used to build new classes from existing classes.** 

**The inheritance relationship is transitive**: if class X extends class Y, then a class Z, which extends class x, will also inherit from class Y.

## Sintaxis/How to implement it
```java
class Subclass-name extends Superclass-name {  
   //methods and fields  
}
```

The **extends keyword** indicates that you are making a new class that derives from an existing class. The meaning of "extends" is to increase the functionality.

In the terminology of Java, a class which is inherited is called a parent or superclass, and the new class is called child or subclass.

## Technical definition
In Java, inheritance is a mechanism that allows a class to inherit the properties and behaviors of another class. The class that inherits the properties and behaviors is called the subclass or derived class, while the class being inherited from is called the superclass or base class. Inheritance promotes code reuse, reduces redundancy, and establishes relationships between classes.

## Component/Complements
The main components of inheritance in Java are:

- **Superclass**: The class being inherited from. a subclass. and providing the inherited properties and behaviors.-

- **Subclass**: The class inheriting the properties and behaviors from the superclass. "

- **Inheritance hierarchy**: The relationship between classes in the inheritance hierarchy, where one class inherits from another class.

### Types of inheritance in java
There are five types of inheritance. Of them Java supports the first three only.

#### Single inheritance
Single inheritance refers to the inheritance relationship where a class inherits from a single superclass. **A class can have only one direct superclass.** This is the simplest form of inheritance. E
xample:
```java
class SuperClass {
    // superclass members
}

class SubClass extends SuperClass {
    // subclass members
}
```

#### Multilevel inheritance
Multilevel inheritance refers to the inheritance **relationship where a class inherits from a derived class, which in turn inherits from another derived class.** This creates a chain of inheritance. 
Example:
```java
class GrandParent {
    // grandparent members
}

class Parent extends GrandParent {
    // parent members
}

class Child extends Parent {
    // child members
}
```

#### Hierarchical inheritance
Hierarchical inheritance refers to the inheritance relationship where multiple classes inherit from a single superclass. **This means a single superclass has multiple derived classes.**
Example:
```java
class SuperClass {
    // superclass members
}

class SubClass1 extends SuperClass {
    // subclass1 members
}

class SubClass2 extends SuperClass {
    // subclass2 members
}
```

#### Multiple inheritance (not supported in Java)
Multiple inheritance refers to the inheritance relationship where a class inherits from multiple superclasses. However, Java does not support multiple inheritance for classes. **It is supported for interfaces using interface inheritance.** 
Example:
```java
interface Interface1 {
    // interface1 members
}

interface Interface2 {
    // interface2 members
}

class MyClass implements Interface1, Interface2 {
    // class members
}
```

#### Hybrid inheritance (not directly supported in Java)
Hybrid inheritance refers to a combination of multiple inheritance and multilevel inheritance. It involves multiple inheritance of classes and interfaces. **Although Java does not directly support hybrid inheritance for classes, it can be achieved using a combination of interfaces and classes.** 
Example:
```java
interface Interface1 {
    // interface1 members
}

interface Interface2 {
    // interface2 members
}

class Parent {
    // parent members
}

class Child extends Parent implements Interface1, Interface2 {
    // child members
}
```

### This and Super keywords
#### this keyword
The `this` keyword is used to refer to the current instance of the class. It is commonly used in the following contexts:
1. **As an argument to the constructor:** When a constructor calls another constructor in the same class using the `this` keyword, it passes the current instance (i.e., the object being constructed) to the called constructor. This is known as constructor chaining.
```java
class MyClass {
    int a;
    int b;

    MyClass(int a, int b) {
        this.a = a;
        this.b = b;
    }

    MyClass(int a) {
        this(a, 0);
    }
}
```
2. **In getter and setter methods:** The `this` keyword is used to refer to the instance variables of the class when getting or setting their values in getter and setter methods.
```java
class MyClass {
    int x;

    int getX() {
        return this.x;
    }

    void setX(int x) {
        this.x = x;
    }
}
```

#### super keyword
The `super` keyword is used to refer to the immediate superclass of a class. It is commonly used in the following contexts:
1. **To call a superclass method:** The `super` keyword is used to call a method from the superclass. This is useful when you want to extend or override a method in the subclass and still use the original method from the superclass.
```java
class Animal {
    void makeSound() {
        System.out.println("Animal makes a sound");
    }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    void makeSound() {
        System.out.println("Dog barks");
        super.makeSound();
    }
}
```
2. **To call a superclass constructor:** The `super` keyword is used to call a superclass constructor from a subclass. This is necessary to properly initialize the superclass.
```java
class Animal {
    Animal() {
        System.out.println("Animal is created");
    }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    Dog() {
        super();
        System.out.println("Dog is created");
    }
}
```
3. **To access superclass properties:** The `super` keyword is used to access the properties of the superclass. This is useful when you want to access a superclass property in a subclass.
```java
class Animal {
    protected String name;
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    Dog(String name) {
        super(name);
    }

    void setName(String name) {
        super.name = name;
    }
}
```

## Tips to use it
1. Use inheritance to reuse existing code: Inheritance allows you to reuse existing code by inheriting properties and behaviors from a superclass./

2. Use appropriate inheritance: Choose the appropriate type of inheritance (single, multiple, or multilevel) based on your design requirements.

3. Establish relationships between classes: Inheritance allows you to establish relationships between classes and express the "is-a" relationship (subclass "is-a" superclass).

4. Use access modifiers and inheritance: Be aware of the access modifiers (public, protected, private, and package-private) when inheriting properties and behaviors.

## Example of impementation
```java
class Animal {
    protected String name;

    public Animal(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    public void makeSound() {
        System.out.println("Animal makes a sound");
    }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    private String breed;

    public Dog(String name, String breed) {
        super(name);
        this.breed = breed;
    }

    public void makeSound() {
        System.out.println("Dog barks");
    }

    public void fetch() {
        System.out.println("Dog fetches a ball");
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Animal animal = new Animal("Generic Animal");
        animal.makeSound();

        Dog dog = new Dog("Buddy", "Labrador");
        dog.makeSound();
        dog.fetch();
    }
}

```
In this example, we have a superclass `Animal` with a constructor and a method `makeSound()`
The subclass `Dog` extends `Animal` and adds a specific method `fetch()`. The `Dog` class overrides the `makeSound()` method. We create objects of both classes and demonstrate polymorphism by treating the `Dog` object as an `Animal` object.

## Resources
- [javatpoint](https://www.javatpoint.com/inheritance-in-java)
- [whitman](https://www.whitman.edu/mathematics/java_tutorial/java/javaOO/subclasses.html)
- [techguruspeaks](https://www.techguruspeaks.com/java-inheritance/)
