## Simple definition/main idea
Polymorphism is a fundamental concept in object-oriented programming that allows objects of different classes to be treated as objects of a common superclass or interface. It enables code to be written that can work with objects of multiple types, providing flexibility and extensibility in the design of software systems.

## Syntax/Implementation
Polymorphism in Java is achieved through method overriding and method overloading.

- Method overriding: When a subclass provides its own implementation of a method that is already defined in its superclass. The method in the subclass must have the same name, return type, and parameters as the method in the superclass. The `@Override` annotation is used to indicate that a method is intended to override a superclass method.

- Method overloading: When multiple methods with the same name but different parameters are defined within a class. The methods must differ in their parameter types, number of parameters, or both.

## Technical Details
Polymorphism allows a variable of a superclass type to hold an object of any subclass that inherits from the superclass. At compile time, the compiler checks if the method or variable is valid for the declared type. At runtime, the actual object type determines which method implementation is executed. This allows for late binding or dynamic method dispatch.

Polymorphism is closely related to inheritance, as it relies on the hierarchical relationship between classes and their ability to override methods from their superclasses.

## Key Concepts/Components

### Types of Java polymorphism
In Java polymorphism is mainly divided into two types: 
#### Compile-time Polymorphism
It is also known as static polymorphism. This type of polymorphism is achieved by function overloading or operator overloading.

#### Runtime Polymorphism
It is also known as Dynamic Method Dispatch. It is a process in which a function call to the overridden method is resolved at Runtime. This type of polymorphism is achieved by Method Overriding. [**Method overriding**](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/overriding-in-java/), on the other hand, occurs when a derived class has a definition for one of the member functions of the base class. That base function is said to be **overridden**.

### Early Binding (Static Binding)

- Early binding, also known as static binding or compile-time binding, **refers to the process of linking a method call to the method implementation at compile-time.**
- The binding between a method call and its implementation is determined by the type of the reference variable or expression used to invoke the method.
- Early binding is **based on the declared type of the object rather than the actual type of the object at runtime.**
- It is performed by the compiler, and the specific method to be called is resolved during the compilation phase.
- Early binding is typically used in situations where the method to be called is known at compile-time and does not change at runtime.
- Examples of early binding include method calls for static methods, private methods, final methods, and methods called on objects with a specific declared type.

### Late Binding (Dynamic Binding)

- Late binding, also known as dynamic binding or runtime binding, **refers to the process of linking a method call to the method implementation at runtime.**
- The binding between a method call and its implementation is determined by the actual type of the object at runtime.
- Late binding allows for polymorphic behavior, where the appropriate method implementation is determined based on the actual type of the object rather than its declared type.
- **It is performed during the runtime of the program, and the specific method to be called is resolved based on the actual type of the object.**
- Late binding is particularly useful when dealing with inheritance, method overriding, and interfaces, as it allows objects of different subclasses to exhibit different behaviors.
- Examples of late binding include method calls for overridden methods, interface methods, and methods called on objects with a superclass or interface type.

### Upcasting
- Upcasting refers to the **process of converting an object from a derived class to its base class type.**
- It is an implicit or automatic type conversion.
- **Upcasting is safe and does not require any explicit casting operator.**
- The upcasted object can only access the members (fields and methods) of the base class.
- Upcasting is used to treat a derived class object as a base class object, allowing for polymorphism and abstraction.
- Example:
```java
BaseClass baseObj = new DerivedClass(); // Upcasting
```

### Downcasting
- Downcasting refers to the **process of converting an object from a base class type to its derived class type.**
- It is an explicit type conversion and requires the use of a casting operator.
- Downcasting can be potentially unsafe if the actual object being casted is not of the target derived class type.
- The downcasted object can access both the members of the base class and the additional members of the derived class.
- Downcasting is **used to access the specific members and behaviors of a derived class that are not available in the base class.**
- Example:
```java
BaseClass baseObj = new DerivedClass();
DerivedClass derivedObj = (DerivedClass) baseObj; // Downcasting
```

It's important to note that downcasting should be used with caution. If the object being downcasted is not of the target derived class type, it will result in a runtime exception called `ClassCastException`. To ensure safe downcasting, it's recommended to use the `instanceof` operator to check the object's compatibility before performing the downcast.

## Best Practices
- Design classes and hierarchies with careful consideration of the inheritance and polymorphic relationships.
- Favor using interfaces to define polymorphic behavior, as it allows for more flexibility and loose coupling between classes.
- Follow the Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP) to ensure that subclasses can be used interchangeably with their superclass without breaking the program's behavior.

## Limitations/Considerations
- Polymorphism is applicable to method invocations, not variable access. The actual behavior of variables is determined by their declared type.
- Polymorphism should be used judiciously to avoid complex and confusing code structures.
- Care should be taken when overriding methods to ensure that the behavior is consistent with the superclass.

## Example of impementation
```java
public class Shape {
    public void draw() {
        System.out.println("Drawing a shape");
    }
}

public class Circle extends Shape {
    @Override
    public void draw() {
        System.out.println("Drawing a circle");
    }
}

public class Rectangle extends Shape {
    @Override
    public void draw() {
        System.out.println("Drawing a rectangle");
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Shape shape1 = new Circle();
        Shape shape2 = new Rectangle();

        shape1.draw(); // Output: "Drawing a circle"
        shape2.draw(); // Output: "Drawing a rectangle"
    }
}
```
In the above example, the `Shape` class is the superclass, and `Circle` and `Rectangle` are subclasses. The `draw()` method is overridden in each subclass to provide a different implementation. Polymorphism is demonstrated when objects of type `Circle` and `Rectangle` are assigned to variables of type `Shape` and the `draw()` method is invoked. The method implementation executed depends on the actual object type.

## Resources
- [geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/polymorphism-in-java/)
- 