## Simple definition/main idea
If a class have an entity reference, it is known as Aggregation. Aggregation represents HAS-A relationship.
Aggregation is a specialized form of association between two or more objects in which each object has its own life cycle but there exists an ownership as well. 

Aggregation is a typical whole/part or parent/child relationship but it may or may not denote physical containment. An essential property of an aggregation relationship is that the whole or parent (i.e. the owner) can exist without the part or child and vice versa.

## Sintaxis/How to implement it


## Technical definition
Aggregation is a way to achieve Association. Aggregation represents the relationship where one object contains other objects as a part of its state. It represents the weak relationship between objects. It is also termed as a _has-a_ relationship in Java. Like, inheritance represents the _is-a_ relationship. It is another way to reuse objects.

In aggregation, the lifetime of the contained object can exist independently of the containing object. The contained object can be shared by multiple instances of the containing class or can exist outside the containing class.

Aggregation is represented by a unidirectional association, usually with a one-to-many relationship, where the containing class maintains a reference to the contained class.

## Component/Complements
Aggregation consists of the following components:

- Containing Class: The class that contains a reference to another class is known as the containing class.
- Contained Class: The class that is referred to or contained by another class is known as the contained class.
- Reference: The containing class maintains a reference to the contained class, allowing access to its members and behaviors.

## Tips to use it
- Code reuse is also best achieved by aggregation when there is no is-a relationship.
- Inheritance should be used only if the relationship is-a is maintained throughout the lifetime of the objects involved; otherwise, aggregation is the best choice.
- Use aggregation when one class represents a part or component of another class and can exist independently.
- Aggregation allows for code reuse and modularity by creating a relationship between classes.
- Be mindful of the lifetime of the contained object and ensure proper initialization and management.

## Example of impementation
In this example, Employee has an object of Address, address object contains its own informations such as city, state, country etc. In such case relationship is Employee HAS-A address.
Address.java
```java
public class Address {  
	String city, state, country;
	public Address(String city, String state, String country) {
		this.city = city;
		this.state = state;
		this.country = country;
	}
}
```
Emp.java
```java
class Address {
	String city,state,country;

	public Address(String city, String state, String country) {
		this.city = city;
		this.state = state;
		this.country = country;
	}
}

public class Emp {
	int id;
	String name;
	Address address;

	public Emp(int id, String name,Address address) {
		this.id = id;
		this.name = name;
		this.address=address;
	}

	void display(){
		System.out.println(id+" "+name);
		System.out.println(address.city+" "+address.state+" "+address.country);
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Address address1 = new Address("gzb","UP","india");
		Address address2 = new Address("gno","UP","india");
	
		Emp e = new Emp(111,"varun",address1);
		Emp e2 = new Emp(112,"arun",address2);
		
		e.display();
		e2.display();
	}
}
```

Output:
```
111 varun
gzb UP india
112 arun
gno UP india
```

## Resources
- [javatpoint](https://www.javatpoint.com/aggregation-in-java)
- [infoworld](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3029325/exploring-association-aggregation-and-composition-in-oop.html)
