## Simple definition/main idea
An object in Java is an instance of a class that represents a real-world entity or concept. It is a fundamental concept in object-oriented programming and is used to model and manipulate data. Objects have properties (known as fields or instance variables) and behaviors (known as methods) that can be defined within a class.

## Sintaxis/How to implement it
When a programmer wants to create an object the `new` operator is used with the name of the class. Creating an object is called **instantiation**. Also the `new` keyword is used **to allocate memory at runtime.** All objects get memory in *Heap memory area.*

### Constructor
A [[12. Constructor|constructor]] is a special method that is used to initialize objects of a class. It is called when an object is created using the `new` keyword.

## Technical definition
In Java, an object is an instance of a class. It is a runtime entity that occupies memory and has a unique identity. Objects are created from classes using the `new` keyword, which invokes the constructor of the class. Each object has its own set of instance variables, which represent the state or data of the object, and methods, which define the behavior or actions that the object can perform.

### Simple root class hierarchy
**The hierarchy of classes in Java has one root class, called Object , which is superclass of any class**.

### How to initialize object

1. **Using the `new` keyword and constructor**: The most common way to initialize an object is by using the `new` keyword followed by the constructor of the class. The constructor is a special method that initializes the object. Here's an example:
```java
`ClassName objectName = new ClassName(); // Initializing object using default constructor 
ClassName objectName = new ClassName(parameter1, parameter2, ...); // Initializing object using parameterized constructor`
```

2. **Initializing object using reference variable**: After creating an object, you can assign values to its instance variables using the reference variable and dot (`.`) operator. Here's an example:
```java
`ClassName objectName = new ClassName(); objectName.variableName = value; // Assigning value to instance variable`
```

3. **Initializing object using initialization blocks**: Java allows you to use initialization blocks to initialize instance variables. Initialization blocks are executed when an object is created. There are two types of initialization blocks: instance initialization blocks and static initialization blocks. Here's an example of an instance initialization block:
```java
class ClassName {
	int variableName;      
	{         
		// Instance initialization block         
		variableName = value; // Initializing instance variable     
	} 
}
```

4. **Chaining constructors**: If a class has multiple constructors, you can use one constructor to call another constructor using the `this` keyword. This is known as constructor chaining and helps in initializing objects using different sets of parameters. Here's an example:
```java
class ClassName {     
	int variable1;     
	int variable2;      
	public ClassName(int value1) {         
		this(value1, defaultValue); // Chaining to another constructor
	}      
	public ClassName(int value1, int value2) {         
		this.variable1 = value1;         
		this.variable2 = value2;     
	} 
}
```

### How to create an object
#### By new keyword
The most common and straightforward way to create an object is by using the `new` keyword followed by the constructor of the class. This method is used for regular object creation. Example:
```java
ClassName objectName = new ClassName();
```

#### By newInstance() method
The `newInstance()` method is a reflective way to create an object. It is defined in the `java.lang.Class` class and allows you to create objects dynamically at runtime. Example:
```java
Class<ClassName> clazz = ClassName.class;
ClassName objectName = clazz.newInstance();
```

#### By clone() method
The `clone()` method creates a new object that is a copy of an existing object. The class of the object being cloned must implement the `Cloneable` interface, and the `clone()` method needs to be overridden. Example:
```java
ClassName objectName = new ClassName();
ClassName clonedObject = (ClassName) objectName.clone();
```

#### By deserialization
Deserialization is the process of reconstructing an object from its serialized form. You can create an object by reading it from a file, network, or any other serialized source. Example:
```java
FileInputStream fileInputStream = new FileInputStream("object.ser");
ObjectInputStream objectInputStream = new ObjectInputStream(fileInputStream);
ClassName objectName = (ClassName) objectInputStream.readObject();
```

#### By factory method
A factory method is a design pattern that provides an interface for creating objects without specifying the exact class of the object being created. It encapsulates the object creation logic in a separate method. Example:
```java
public class ClassName {
    private ClassName() {
        // Private constructor
    }

    public static ClassName createObject() {
        return new ClassName();
    }
}

ClassName objectName = ClassName.createObject();
```

#### Anonymous object
An anonymous object in Java refers to an object that is created without assigning it to a variable. It is created on the fly and used immediately without storing its reference in a variable. The anonymous object is useful when you need to perform a single operation on an object without reusing it. Example:
```java
public class Calculation {
    public void multiply(int a, int b) {
        int result = a * b;
        System.out.println("Multiplication result: " + result);
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Using an anonymous object to perform a single multiplication operation
        new Calculation().multiply(5, 3);
        
        // Another example with different values
        new Calculation().multiply(10, 2);
    }
}
```

## Component/Complements

## Tips to use it
1. Understand the class: Before creating an object, make sure you understand the class it belongs to. Familiarize yourself with the fields and methods defined in the class.

2. Create objects when needed: Objects should be created when they are needed to represent real-world entities or to perform specific tasks. Avoid creating unnecessary objects, as they consume memory.

3. Access object members using the dot operator: To access the fields and methods of an object, use the dot (`.`) operator followed by the member name. For example, `object.field` or `object.method()`.

4. Use constructors to initialize objects: Constructors are special methods that are used to initialize the state or data of an object. Use constructors to set the initial values of the object's fields.

## Example of impementation
Here is an example of implementing an object in Java:
```java
class Car {
    String brand;
    String model;
    int year;

    void startEngine() {
        System.out.println("Starting the engine of " + brand + " " + model);
    }

    void accelerate() {
        System.out.println("Accelerating " + brand + " " + model);
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Create an object of the Car class
        Car myCar = new Car();
        
        // Set object properties
        myCar.brand = "Toyota";
        myCar.model = "Camry";
        myCar.year = 2021;
        
        // Access and call object methods
        myCar.startEngine();
        myCar.accelerate();
    }
}
```

In this example, we define a class `Car` with fields `brand`, `model`, and `year`, and methods `startEngine()` and `accelerate()`. We create an object `myCar` of the `Car` class, set its properties, and call its methods to perform actions on the car object.

## Resources
- [javatpoint](https://www.javatpoint.com/object-and-class-in-java)
